1. What is a constructor in C#?
	A constructor is a special method that is automatically called when an object is created. 
	It initializes the object’s state and has the same name as the class. It doesn’t have a return type—even

2. How many types of constructors are there in C#?
	Default constructor: No parameters.
	Parameterized constructor: Accepts arguments.
	Copy constructor: Copies values from another object.
	Static constructor: Initializes static members.
	Private constructor: Restricts instantiation (used in Singleton).

3. Can constructors be overloaded?
	Yes. You can define multiple constructors with different parameter lists. This is called constructor overloading.
	For Example:

	public class Person {
		public Person() { }
		public Person(string name) { }
		public Person(string name, int age) { }
	}

4. What is a static constructor?
	A constructor that initializes static data. It runs once per type, before any instance is created or static members are accessed.
	For Example:

	public class Config {
		static Config() {
			Console.WriteLine("Static constructor called");
		}
	}
	public static void Main() {
			Config config = new Config(); // Static constructor runs here
		}
	}

5. Can a constructor be private?
	Yes. A private constructor prevents external instantiation. Commonly used in Singleton patterns.
	For Example:

	class Singleton {
		private static Singleton instance;
		private Singleton() { 
		
		}

		public static Singleton GetInstance() {
			if (instance == null)
				instance = new Singleton();

			return instance;
		}
	}

6. Can constructors be inherited?
	No. Constructors are not inherited, but a derived class can call the base class constructor using base().
	For Example:

	class Animal {
		public Animal(string name) 
		{ 
		
		}
	}

	class Dog : Animal {
		public Dog() : base("Buddy") 
		{ 
		
		}
	}

7. What is constructor chaining?
	Calling one constructor from another using this() or base() to reuse initialization logic.
	For Example:

	public class Car {
		public Car() : this("Unknown") 
		{ 
		
		}
		
		public Car(string model) {
			Console.WriteLine("Model: " + model);
		}
	}

8. What happens if no constructor is defined in a class?
	If no constructor is defined, the compiler provides a default constructor that initializes fields to their default values.

9. Can a constructor throw exceptions?
	Yes, constructors can throw exceptions if something goes wrong during initialization.
	For Example:
	
	public class Person {
		public Person(string name) {
			if (string.IsNullOrEmpty(name)) {
				throw new ArgumentException("Name cannot be null or empty");
			}
		}
	}

10. What is the difference between a constructor and a method?
	A constructor has the same name as the class, has no return type, and is called automatically when an object is created. A method can have any name, has a return type, and is called explicitly.

11. Can we use access modifiers in constructors?
	Yes, constructors can have access modifiers like public, private, or protected to control visibility.

12. What is the role of constructor in Dependency Injection?
	A constructor in Dependency Injection allows you to pass dependencies (other objects) when creating an instance of a class, ensuring that the class has everything it needs to function properly.

13. What is the Telescoping Constructor Pattern?
	The Telescoping Constructor Pattern is a design pattern where multiple constructors are defined with varying parameters, allowing for flexible object creation. It often leads to a long list of constructors, which can be cumbersome.

14. What is constructor overloading?
	Constructor overloading is the ability to define multiple constructors in a class with different parameter lists, allowing for different ways to initialize an object.

15. Can a constructor be abstract or virtual?
	No, constructors cannot be abstract or virtual. They are not meant to be overridden or inherited like regular methods.

16. What is the use of 'base()' in constructors?
	The 'base()' keyword is used in a derived class constructor to call the constructor of its base class, allowing for proper initialization of the base class part of the object.

17. What is constructor initializer in C#?
	Constructor initializer in C# allows you to call another constructor from the same class or the base class using 'this()' or 'base()' respectively.

18. Can we define logic in constructors?
	Yes, you can define logic in constructors, but it is generally recommended to keep it simple and avoid complex operations that could throw exceptions.

19. What are common uses for private constructors?
	Private constructors are commonly used in Singleton patterns to restrict instantiation and in static classes to prevent object creation.

20. What’s the benefit of constructor injection?
	Constructor injection ensures that all required dependencies are provided at the time of object creation, making the code easier to test and maintain.



https://codequestify.blogspot.com/2025/06/top-30-constructor-interview-questions.html
1. What is a Constructor?
	A constructor is a special method that gets called when you create an object from a class. It helps set up the object with default or specific values.

2. Types of Constructors?
	1. Default Constructor – No parameters.
	2. Parameterized Constructor – Accepts values.
	3. Copy Constructor – Copies another object.
	4. Static Constructor – Sets static values. Runs once.
	5. Private Constructor – Used to stop outside object creation.

3. What is a Default Constructor?
	A constructor without any parameters. It gives default values to object properties.

4. What is a Parameterized Constructor?
	This constructor accepts arguments so you can set specific values when creating an object.

5. Can you overload constructors?
	Yes. You can create multiple constructors with different parameter lists. This is called constructor overloading.

6. What is a Copy Constructor?
	It creates a new object by copying the values of an existing object.

7. What is a Static Constructor?
	A special constructor that runs only once to initialize static data. You can't call it manually.

8. Can constructors be private?
	Yes. Private constructors are used in Singleton patterns to restrict object creation.

9. Difference between Constructor and Method?
	Constructor: Same name as class, no return type, runs automatically.
	Method: Can have any name, has return type, runs when called.

10. Can constructors be inherited?
	No, but you can call the base class constructor using 'base()' from the child class.

11. Why use constructor chaining?
	To avoid repeating code. You can call one constructor from another using 'this()'.

12. What is constructor initializer in C#?
	It lets you call another constructor of the same or base class using 'this()' or 'base()'.

13. Can you call a constructor from another constructor?
	Yes, using 'this()' keyword to reuse initialization code.

14. What happens if no constructor is defined?
	The compiler automatically creates a default constructor.

15. Can a constructor be abstract?
	No, constructors can’t be abstract because they are never overridden.

16. Can a constructor be virtual?
	No, constructors can't be virtual. You can’t override them.

17. What is constructor overloading?
	It means having more than one constructor with different parameters.

18. Why are static constructors parameterless?
	Because they are called automatically and can’t take any arguments.

19. Can a constructor throw exceptions?
	Yes, you can use 'throw' inside a constructor if something goes wrong.

20. Is constructor required in every class?
	No. If you don’t define one, a default constructor is provided by the compiler.

21. What is the use of 'base()' in constructors?
	It is used in a child class to call the parent class constructor.

22. What happens when an object is created?
	Memory is reserved and the constructor runs to set initial values.

23. Can we use access modifiers in constructors?
	Yes, you can use 'public', 'private', or 'protected' with constructors.

24. What is the role of constructor in Dependency Injection?
	It helps pass required objects (dependencies) to a class using parameters.

25. Can we use 'base' and 'this' together in a constructor?
	No, you can use only one at a time in a constructor initializer.

26. What is the order of constructor calls in inheritance?
	First the base class constructor runs, then the child class constructor.

27. Can we define logic in constructors?
	Yes, but only simple setup logic. Avoid putting complex operations in constructors.

28. What are common uses for private constructors?
	Used in Singleton pattern or static classes to prevent object creation.

29. What’s the benefit of constructor injection?
	It makes sure that required data is provided and makes the code easier to test.

30. What is the Telescoping Constructor Pattern?
	A pattern where one constructor calls another with more parameters, making step-by-step object creation.
